[MUSIC]
>> Aaron Frost: So we've got LET
definitions, we've got LET with looping,
those are the two pieces
we're gonna cover.
There used to be three pieces of LET, or
sorry four, but they cut two of them out.
So there used to be LET definitions and
they cut out LET expressions and
LET statements, okay?
And if you guys wanna come talk to me
on the break about what those were,
those were invented by Mozilla,
I think, and with block functions,
we don't need them anymore.
Okay, so let's talk about LET definitions,
and then LET with looping.
So, LET definitions,
this is LET in its most
basic form, just like that, okay.
So, instead of var you can use LET, so
you literally use it just like you do LET.
There's not a lot of differences.
You can reassign it just like you can var.
So, I can declare foo set it to 2 and
I can say foo = 3, we're good to go.
So, it's not constant.
It's just like you use var,
it's just a different word, okay.
And this is also let in
its most basic form.
We've already seen this code, though, the
only thing that changed is the word LET.
Now who thinks they know what's
going to to happen, any ganders?
Error, 2, 3, or undefined, anyone?
No one's willing,
I burnt you all on the first one?
>> Speaker 2: Wouldn't it actually be NaN?
>> Aaron Frost: NaN?
Undefined plus, it could be NaN, yeah,
it's gonna throw an error, though.
It's gonna say bar not defined cuz,
inside the lexical scope on the if,
it actually blocked your LET inside,
your bar inside there.
So, the bar variable is now trapped
inside your if statement, and
you can't access it outside of that scope.
This is what we thought it was gonna do,
right?
We did this with var and it didn't do what
we thought it was gonna do, remember?
But now now it is going to do what we
think it's going to do so it's nice.
So we have block scoping again.
If you run this code, does anyone know
what they think's going to happen?
Let a=0, a=2, what's this going to log and
what's this going to log?
Anyone know?
Yeah, they're gonna log what you thought
they were gonna log, it's not a tricky
anymore, I'm past the tricky stuff.
That was the very wise thing.
It runs like you think
it's going to run now.
So you're like yeah,
this is this what I always wanted right.
He didn't know you needed it to today but
yeah this is what you always wanted.
This is what you thought you had all
along, so you don't really miss it.
So this is actually gonna
throw an error though.
So if you say let a = 0 and
then you you make another a with with
a let declaration, he's gonna die.
You're gonna get an error.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] The same
is true for var if you use string.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Aaron Frost: Yes, yeah,
you can't redefine, you can't double
declare those, you can only use it once.
Did someone say something.
So yeah, so without you strict you
can do this with our so you know you
don't ever do that, but you could do that,
like it wouldn't it wouldn't totally die.
But with let you're going
to get a SyntaxError, and
even if you declare of var
then you do a new let with c,
you can get the same thing,
say Variable c already exists.
So, yeah and
these scopes exist across the board.
So b is going to be trapped inside here.
This let c is going to be trapped
inside this switch statement.
Let d is going to be trapped
inside that while loop.
So your curly braces are your new scope,
cool.
>> Aaron Frost: Any question about that?
>> Speaker 4: Question, on the chats.
So what if you double declare a let
in the var, if you do var twice,
it just uses the same variable.
What happens with, either two let's,
or a var and let at the same?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Aaron Frost: I already answered that.
Do you want me to, I'll do it again.
>> Speaker 4: Just show me the slide that-
>> Aaron Frost: This is what happens.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah at
the bottom there it's a-
>> Aaron Frost: If you double LET,
it freaks.
If you declare a var and
then LET, it freaks.
I'm not sure what would happen
if you did LET and then var.
Who cares, right,
you shouldn't do that anyway, so.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, sorry about that.
>> Speaker 4: There was another,
I don't know if this was a comment or
kind of a question, but
select works everywhere,
var works, and
var works everywhere it has worked.
>> Aaron Frost: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Aaron Frost: And in all the same ways
that it always has worked.
Yeah, good way to put it.
Okay so we have this thing
called the Temporal Dead Zone.
And you guys know it's some Dungeon and
Dragon Master forgive me
that term up right like
it was not like a normal folk
call them the Temporal Dead Zone.
So, we have this thing called
the Temporal Dead Zone and
I'm going to try my best to explain it.
So, look at this code,
I'm using let a =1 I'm trying to log
it before the let statement happens.
What do you guys think is going to happen?
Error?
>> Speaker 3: Error.
>> Aaron Frost: Error.
Anyone think it's going to log on to find?
>> Speaker 5: [INAUDIBLE],
right?
>> Aaron Frost: So Firefox
implementation currently has got a bug.
This is the reason I'm pointing it out
cuz you guys might get in there and
play around with it and it's gonna work
differently than the way I'm saying.
So I wanted to point this out.
So Firefox is gonna log a zero or
an and undefined here, okay.
But, with the concept of the temporal dead
zone, it should throw an error, okay.
You cannot use it until it's
been declared, officially.
So under the covers though, the reason
that they came up with this crazy concept
called the temporal dead zone is because
they still are going to evaluate it.
When it evaluates this function, when it
evaluates to do something, it's gonna go,
I mean it's gonna evaluate this.
I see what I left there on line two,
I'm actually gonna reserve a spot in
memory for that, but you can't access it.
That's called a temporal dead zone.
You can't access it so you declare it.
Does that makes sense of what
the temporal dead zone is?
>> Speaker 3: But
what if there was a global a,
what if there's an a in the global scope?
>> Aaron Frost: It should log that a but
there's bugs like in all
the implementations right now.
That is solid question.
And I found that when Alex, so
if you have like an a up at the top and
then you had a function
with an a in it and
you tried to use it before you tried
to log it before it was declared.
It should go up at the top one but
all the implementations right now,
just log this undefined one
that you're coming up on.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Aaron Frost: Yes, yeah, well,
they don't respect
the temporal dead zone yeah.
So, yeah, okay so it does kind of hoist
it to reserve space in memory but
you can't access until it's there.
So it would actually,
it should throw a reference error.
If you do this in Firefox it won't,
but it should.
Any questions on LET before I move on?
We're gonna get into looping,
it's similar, but yeah.
Go ahead.
>> Speaker 4: We have a few of them here.
Do you think we should only use LET,
or is var still useful?
>> Aaron Frost: I mean, if you're
starting a new project, I would only,
okay, so if you don't have to support
legacy browsers, a gear that you're
the Sasquatch, the mythical thing that
doesn't have to support legacy, right.
So if you don't have to,
then yeah, use LET.
Or you're a node developer then yeah,
use LET.
I would, because it makes your code
way more predictable, I think.
Like it runs, going back to that
statement, your code has a lot
less to do with the way it looks than
the way it executes when you're using var.
So I would definitely use LET, if you can.
>> Speaker 4: Then, the next two
questions, can you use LET in a for loop?
>> Aaron Frost: That's the next section.
>> Speaker 4: Okay and
then when can I use this again,
I'm guessing they're asking
when is it available?
>> Aaron Frost: When's it available.
We'll talk about that when
we get to that too, okay?
Okay so
LET with looping it's pretty simple.
So look at this code,
one's gonna log a ten,
one's gonna log a ReferenceError.
So specifically you're looking
at these lines of code.
So, in the first for
loop, I use var, right.
Okay so, that means you say here it
incremented i until i was equal to ten and
when i was equal to ten, it didn't
run this anymore it stopped, right.
So, here it logged 0 through 9 and
then once it was equal to 10, it stopped.
Down here your j, it went,
did the exact same thing,
once j was 10, I'm out,
so, it logged 0 through 9.
But when you get down here, i was still
a thing because the i from the for
loop had been hoisted out, so
you could still reference i.
But over here you're getting
a ReferenceError because using
a let instead of a for
loop is going to scope out here for.
That make sense?
So, it seems that
everything you ever wanted.
So you could have two you could
use i twice, who feels good now?
You can do it, go home, tell your family.
Okay, Steve W is so happy about that, wow.
So yeah,
anyone else want to ask a question before,
because I think I'm pretty much done?
Yeah, also anything inside of the for
loop I think this one without saying is
also locked inside of the loop body, so.
So anyway constant,
anyone ready to move on the constant, and
does anyone has questions.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Two questions here.
I don't know if you did
cover one of these but
does LET still behave the same
in respect to closure?
>> Aaron Frost: So
if I put it inside but IAF or something,
like inside an anonymous function?
Yeah yeah totally does.
An anonymous function or an IAF either,
they're just a function, so
it totally functions the exact same way.
And then what's the other question?
>> Speaker 4: The next one is are
variables declared with let hoisted within
the box?
>> Aaron Frost: So I talk about that
when I talked about temporal dead zone.
As far as us the developers are concerned,
no, but behind the scenes it is.
Which is why you have
the current funkiness.
Behind the scenes it actually is going,
you have a leg to reserve
a spot in memory for it.
And then but
you can't use it you can't access until
it actually is declared on whatever line.
So it's not if it's declared on line 10,
you can't refer to it until line 10,
otherwise you're gonna get an error.
Today, you can refer to it before you
get to line 10 which is a bug but
you shouldn't be able to do so.
So you're good.
>> Speaker 4: What version,
of nodes supports LET?
>> Aaron Frost: So,
if you run node, I think node-
>> Speaker 3: 0.11.
>> Aaron Frost: 0.11 okay, cool.
>> Speaker 3: But with a harmony flag.
>> Aaron Frost: Thank you, yeah,
they're hidden behind the harmony
flag all these features.
So once they're in V8,
it's just, it's just there.
So if you wanted to use maps which
we'll talk about in a bit, it gets
there you could you could probably use
a map in node to get the latest version.
But if you wanted to use
LET it's not in yet so,
you have proper tail calls same thing.
Good question, question?
>> Speaker 4: One thing, can you use
LET to assign a function to a variable?
>> Aaron Frost: So let A equal a function?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
>> Aaron Frost: Totally, yeah,
like when we said you can
use LET the places use VAR,
we were serious about that.
You can totally do that.